---
layout: post
categories: blog
---

> So is the day where everything is supposed to come together. The sun comes in with an optimistic beam as if nothing was ever wrong. She rests her head on the shoulder next to her, eyes half-closed, a red hoodie on her stomach. It is warm here. The sun and the smell of donuts and coffee. A couple in their sixties sit on the other side of her. The wife looks surprisingly familiar. Whose mother is this? She saw too many women with similar features at a similar age when she was in college. Dads with grey shiny hair and mothers, bold patterned scarves. Their rented Honda Civics surrounded the only B&B in that small town. It smells of grease and ketchup. The husband is eating an egg and sausage platter.  

> Another couple sit across her. Possibly early twenties, probably not married. The guy was sitting there by himself for a while, staring at the ceiling. She followed his gaze. The ceiling of this airport reminds her of some European cathedral, of course in a secular, almost profane way. Some kind of dome structure, at the convergence point of each vault there is an opening that brings in the light. The whole terminal is lit. Tables at TGIF are spotless and organized, Heinz and a napkin box at the center of each of them. A symmetry between those light openings and the tables. Is it coincidental or is there a mastermind? When she glanced back at the guy, he was nibbling on some snacks that came with the bagel. His girlfriend had got back with a bagel with cream cheese. She is skinny. She looks generic. All the girls with dirty blond hair, they all look generic.  

> The shoulder next to her moves. She feels a little more awake now. Flying on Thanksgiving, it's not all that special. Nothing can be that special these days. Her job is fine. She works at a nonprofit where people still talk about putting up some kind of “web forum” for the organization’s new website. She just got a bike recently, for free. A friend who was moving gave her the vintage cruiser. It squeaks whenever she brakes. Gets the job done, she has nothing to complain about. She is the one who still wears her two-year-old sneakers and has dirty blond hair just like the girl across her. She has a boyfriend, the owner of the shoulder. They have been dating for three years. A marriage might be on the horizon soon. She is still excited by the idea. Frankly settling down isn't that bad an idea. She would quit her job at the nonprofit and become a stay-home mom. Those feminists advocating for women's rights, do they ever get tired? Why can't someone settle for a simpler life?  

> He owns a home improvement business. In the city people are always looking to renovate. A few years ago the area in which they live experienced burglaries on a regular basis, but now all their neighbors are young families. Children have started to play in the back yard whose fences are high. She rarely sees a face, but only hears the giggles. Little voices.  

> Never. Never has she had any big dreams. When she came to the city she didn't have any specific pursuit. She was fine with that. The first two years she worked as a production assistant at a PR company. It was not a stimulating place. People are constrained by all the possible constraints in the world. Time, money and bureaucracy. Usually one experiences one or two of these, but she had them all the whole time. The client would want to do a press release two days before they launch a product. She saw the designers stressing out about the deadline. The end product was never impressive. Like one of those banners she would see at Macy's. All cheery with some pretty curly font. Her job was simple in the sense it didn't require much brain work. Scheduling, calling the clients and noting down their requests for the tenth revision. Waiting. Waiting was a way she lived her life. She waited for the bus, for the train. For the day to be over, for the show to start, for her eyes to feel heavy, her brain to shut down. For the morning. For the toast to get firmer. For the coffee to brew even though the beans she got at the grocery store never tasted good. Waiting.  

> So is the day like every other day when things are supposed to come together. They do. She sits in the plane and look out. The huge machines seem to work seamlessly. She and her little safe world. Sweet potatoes with marshmallows on top.
