---
layout: post
title: "After W4M"
categories: blog
---

I am reading an issue of the _Aperture_ magazine.

There is a conversation between Moyra Davey — a writer, photographer and filmmaker that I have become increasingly fond of — and Matthew S. Witkovsky, a curator. 

MW: _You've quoted a line from Jean Genet, saying I'm fifty and I look like sixty, and I think that's fabulous._

MD: _He says, I'm not ashamed._

MW: _Right, and he's writing to this young man, Java._

MD: _His former lover. And he adds, "I even find it rather restful."_

MW: _Yes, I'm amazed I forgot that bit of the quote, because it is beautiful. Restful: what a perfect word. A whole lot of youthful energy is expended in making oneself presentable._

The cover of the magazine bears the name "_Lit._"

The issue is from winter 2014.

I was 26 in winter 2014.

It is very likely that my 26-year-old self would purchase this copy and display it — casually, of course — on the coffee table, making an attempt to elicit a few laughs at a dinner party. 

"Yeah, that's lit." "It's a play on literature." "They know we know." "And they _want_ us to get it." "Hahaha."

I had an Instagram account. I was interested in photography in a way that everyone who had an Instagram account was interested in photography. I was skilled in cropping and rotating. I knew how to adjust the brightness, contrast, curve and sharpness of a still image. I knew the faded look and feel and the melancholic summer afternoon mood associated with a green mid tone.

I lived in a world of screens. (I still do, though with more awareness.) I even made things for it, designing websites and interfaces.

Images were pixels — reproduced by, manipulated as, viewed in pixels. 

I took that as a fact of life. 

That winter I traveled to an island and asked a boy to love me.

He said he couldn't.

I cried.

We kissed.

Things must happen in this order.

I took that as another fact.

### *

In the same _Aperture_ issue, Janet Malcom corresponds with Geoff Dyer. 

She writes: _I began writing about photography with the spurious authority of the young._

Noticeably, I have been using these phrases:

_when you are young_

_when I was young_

_in my youth_

E.g. I said to someone recently, _when you are young there seems to be only one direction:  forward._

A friend calls me an age-ist.

I laugh in agreement.

_Don't you feel a bit pretentious,_ he says, _it's as if you feel you are better than younger people. But you are not that old. (And I am not that young.)_

I guess I have come across as patronizing. It was never my intention. I apologize and consider a re-phrase.

Being older is not about being more sure about things.

If anything, it's about being less.

### *

In 2012 and 2013, I posted to the _Missed Connections_ column on Craigslist, a result from more than one instances of unreciprocated love.* I always chose to post under the category W4M (crudely, woman for man).

I wrote:

> Outside of the car everything was golden again like that spring day when I walked into the translucent shades of newly budded branches. It is fall now — the golden has aged. I looked at the passing stop signs. I thought it was a beautiful day. When you became part of it I was surprised. The same kind of surprise as I took the train from one island to another that winter — only to discover there was no distance between the snow and the sea.

> To innocent strangers, I hummed my song. I walked by the burnt house, my gaze hollowed. Someone had died in a fire. The soundless sirens, their bright red woe. You were full and real, but now only a thin nostalgia. Invisible, I lay in silence. I could not force myself into your dream.

> You used to be a shadow in my quiet dreams — there I saw you with my eyes closed. Your figure was a feather, swaying in silence.

Et cetera.

Strangers replied.

> What was that?

> I relate to the pain that you’re feeling because of my own difficulties in moving forward without the person who meant all things to me. The middle of the night is the worst time for me because of her presence in my world of dreams. So I read CL and search for kindred spirits out there — thus my email at 4am.

>  In my verbosity I often imagine a child running gaily about a rural field in deep October dragging a ball of yarn, tripping, twisting, doubling back and covering her tracks again and again until all slack is taut and she falls over, laughing and crying, in a massive unmistakable knot of words and life.

> i love you

> hi…………………..hows your search?

I never wrote back to any of them.

### *

In the novel _The History of Love_, the protagonist recalls an exchange with his lover in his late teens. Voices merge in his memory:

> _If I had a camera, I said, I’d take a picture of you every day. That way I’d remember how you looked every single day of your life. I look the same. No, you don’t. You’re changing all the time. Every day a tiny bit. If I could, I’d keep a record of it all. If you’re so smart, how did I change today? You got a fraction of a millimeter taller, for one thing. Your hair grew a fraction of a millimeter longer. And your breasts grew a fraction of a— They did not! Yes, they did. What else, you big pig? You got a little happier and also a little sadder. How do you know? Think about it. Have you ever been happier than right now? I guess not. And have you ever been sadder than right now? No. It isn’t like that for everyone. Some people just get happier and happier. And some people, like Beyla Asch, get sadder and sadder. What about you? Are you the happiest and saddest right now that you’ve ever been? Of course I am. Why? Because nothing makes me happier and nothing makes me sadder than you._

I think back to times when emotions seemed novel, strong and inexplicable to me.

the day my crush in elementary school wrote me a note

the day I went to a film with someone who had asked me about my favorite color

the day I had to lie to my mom about skipping an after-school tutorial

Emotions held an unsurmountle amount of meaning at the time.

They were meanings themselves.

Then, one day, I stopped growing taller.

Many years later, I start to tell the difference between causality and construction. This thing called _memory_, for example, is not just what we remember. This thing called _mind_, for another, is also in our heartbeat. This thing called _anonymity_ — perhaps once conceived as a super power — to be _invisible_ is to be _invincible_, right? — is but another name for loneliness. And this thing called _loneliness_, once you learn to give yourself the hug of acceptance, is not that bad after all.

I guess I exercised my spurious authority during those years I called _young_.

And, in recognizing that, I have become a bit older and a bit more wrong.


<hr style="border:1px solid #f2f2f2;">


<small>*I feel reluctant to use the word "love" here because of the limited perspectives of love engendered by romanticism. However, since I was once a believer, I accept the expression of "unreciprocated love" as an interpretation of what love can — but should not be reduced to — be.</small>
