---
layout: post
title: "W4M"
categories: blog
---

I am reading an issue of _Aperture_ from winter 2014 for the first time.

I read a conversation between Moyra Davey — writer, photographer and filmmaker, of whom I have become increasingly fond — and Matthew S. Witkovsky, curator. 

MW: _You've quoted a line from Jean Genet, saying I'm fifty and I look like sixty, and I think that's fabulous._

MD: _He says, I'm not ashamed._

MW: _Right, and he's writing to this young man, Java._

MD: _His former lover. And he adds, "I even find it rather restful."_

MW: _Yes, I'm amazed I forgot that bit of the quote, because it is beautiful. Restful: what a perfect word. A whole lot of youthful energy is expended in making oneself presentable._

The name of the issue is _Lit._

I was 26 when it was published.

Had I chanced on it at a bookstore, my 26-year-old self would likely purchase a copy and wait for the guests to pick it up from my coffee table.

("It's a play on literature." "They know we know." "And they _want_ us to get it." "Hahaha.")

I was interested in photography in a way that anyone who had an Instagram account was interested in photography. I was skilled in cropping and rotating. I knew how much to adjust the brightness and contrast. I was familiar with the faded look, the Sunday feel, the melancholic summer mood with a green mid-tone. 

Screens:

I lived in a world of them.

(I still do.)

I made things for them, designing websites and interfaces.

I made myself presentable through them.

(Now I think: to whom?)

Images were pixels — reproduced by, manipulated as, viewed in pixels.

I took that as a fact of life. 

That same winter I traveled to an island and asked a boy to love me.

He said he couldn't.

I cried.

We kissed.

Things must happen in this order.

I took that as another fact.

### *

These phrases have been appearing in my speech since I turned 30, short of two years ago:

_when you are young_

_when I was young_

_in my youth_

E.G. _When you are young there seems to be only one direction and that direction is forward._

A friend calls me an age-ist.

I laugh in agreement.

_Don't you feel a bit pretentious,_ he says, _you are not that old and I am not that young._

I guess I have come across as patronizing.

It was never my intention.

I apologize and consider an elaboration.

### *

In the novel _The History of Love_, the protagonist recalls an exchange in his late teens. The voices of two young lovers merge in his memory:

> _If I had a camera, I said, I’d take a picture of you every day. That way I’d remember how you looked every single day of your life. I look the same. No, you don’t. You’re changing all the time. Every day a tiny bit. If I could, I’d keep a record of it all. If you’re so smart, how did I change today? You got a fraction of a millimeter taller, for one thing. Your hair grew a fraction of a millimeter longer. And your breasts grew a fraction of a— They did not! Yes, they did. What else, you big pig? You got a little happier and also a little sadder. How do you know? Think about it. Have you ever been happier than right now? I guess not. And have you ever been sadder than right now? No. It isn’t like that for everyone. Some people just get happier and happier. And some people, like Beyla Asch, get sadder and sadder. What about you? Are you the happiest and saddest right now that you’ve ever been? Of course I am. Why? Because nothing makes me happier and nothing makes me sadder than you._

I think back to times when emotions were novel and — because of that novelty — provided explanations:

the day my crush in elementary school wrote me a note

the day my friend let go of my arm and said she was no longer my friend

the day I finished reading a Harry Potter book in nine consecutive hours

_This is the start this is the end this is going to be the most important day in my life this is meaningful this is meaning this is everything this changed me changed all the things the world is not the same forever I will feel this way forever_

I was quite convinced about how the world works.

Then, one day, I stopped growing taller.

### *

In 2012 and 2013, I posted to the _Missed Connections_ section on Craigslist, a result from a few instances of unreciprocated love.* I always chose to post under the category W4M, crudely shortened for "Woman for Man".

I wrote impressionist proses:

> Outside of the car everything was golden again like that spring day when I walked into the translucent shades of newly budded branches. It is fall now — the golden has aged. I looked at the passing stop signs. I thought it was a beautiful day. When you became part of it I was surprised. The same kind of surprise as I took the train from one island to another that winter — only to discover there was no distance between the snow and the sea.

> To innocent strangers, I hummed my song. I walked by the burnt house, my gaze hollowed. Someone had died in a fire. The soundless sirens, their bright red woe. You were full and real, but now only a thin nostalgia. Invisible, I lay in silence. I could not force myself into your dream.

>I spent hours and hours at the lakeshore collecting pieces of glass washed over by time. Rounded edges, foggy, muted. Like the air we shared on that warm afternoon. I don’t remember if you were holding a book. Words can be meaningless, sometimes, but what a comfort they are.

Strangers replied.

> What was that?

> I was moved by your post. I read it multiple times tonight. I relate to the pain that you’re feeling because of my own difficulties in moving forward without the person who meant all things to me. The middle of the night is the worst time for me because of her presence in my world of dreams. So I read CL and search for kindred spirits out there — thus my email at 4am.

> In my verbosity I often imagine a child running gaily about a rural field in deep October dragging a ball of yarn, tripping, twisting, doubling back and covering her tracks again and again until all slack is taut and she falls over, laughing and crying, in a massive unmistakable knot of words and life.

> hi…………………..hows your search?

Quite a few people commented on my writing. One said I should consider becoming a writer if I was not already one.

I never wrote back to any of them.

I was flattered and hidden, in transience and anonymity.

And I hoped.

Then came a stranger's email bearing no capitalization, no punctuation, no other words but —

> i love you

I felt disappointed.

I did not know I was looking for acceptance in emptiness.


### *

From Janet Malcolm, critic and journalist, in the same _Lit._ issue:

_I began writing about photography with the spurious authority of the young._

I underline <span style="text-decoration: underline;">_the suprious authority of the young_</span>. I am happy to hear it from someone else (and older).

It was something I exercised without knowing.

When did I notice what I was doing?

There is not a single eureka moment, I conclude.

Many happenings (and non-happenings) have contributed to my questioning of causality: therapy, traveling, re-starting life in a new country, learning to make films, reading. 

Happenings (and non-happenings) take time. Time takes place in age. Age accompanies the emergence of truths.

Truths:

For a good while, I was unable to write about my struggles. When I attempted, I wrote as if they were afterthoughts — cool, collected and cryptic.

Unconsiously, I was writing elegies for the time I lost in pretending that everything was — and that I was — alright.

I thought I was taking refuge in hiding. It turns out that I mistook shame for freedom.

Images are not mere pixels.

I feel compelled to differentiate one age from another because, whenever I speak of the past, I become aware of the logic(s) I so fervently believed but no longer do, of the narratives I stopped constructing, of the dissolution of their inevitability.

_When I was young in my youth, I was certain,_

I say to my friend,

_Now I am a bit older, and a bit more wrong._

<hr style="border:1px solid #f2f2f2;">

<small>*I am reluctant to use the word "love" here because of the limited perspectives of love engendered by romanticism. I accept the expression of "unreciprocated love" as an interpretation of what love can — but should not be reduced to — be. After all, love is a word of multitudes.</small>
