---
layout: post
categories: blog
---

I received a third letter from the bureau.

The first one was written in Dutch, except for the line: _We did not invite you to a hearing at our office because we fully agree with your point of view._

I put the letter aside and basked in my right to health insurance.

I was, momentarily, free of bureaucratic concerns. 

I reclaimed a right from the blank stares of

(_oppression_, I wanted to say, but perhaps it was only)

(innocent)

(how come that I already minimized the whole ordeal into)

 _negligence_

The second letter was written in English, a brief version of the first one. The third, sent two weeks later, was a full translation of letter #1.

Ms. S— was feeling something. (I did know her initial and last name from our correspondence.)

I typed a few sentences on my laptop, exported it as a pdf and uploaded it through the bureau's website, the place where I had previously uploaded government forms, invoices, tax returns.

> Dear Ms. S—, 
> 
> I feel sufficiently informed.
> 
> Thank you.
> 
> Best Regards, 
> Jue

### *

It's the Dutch election season. I finally read an article about the parties and Members of Parliament. 

I wonder whom I would vote for, should I be able to vote.

I have not had the right to vote in the past decade.

Yet I speak of "systemic change" — often. 

There is something terrible and terribly ironic about this contrivance.

I have been a believer of law because I have believed in fairness. I have consulted five lawyers in my life, four of which have been immigration lawyers. I am working with one now to figure out my life in this country. 

Ever since I learned the word "litigious" I have used it to describe myself. But as I read the legal requirements of immigration (once again) and tredge through paperworks I have to produce to prove my existence (once again), I realize what I have ignored for far too long:

Laws are made by law-makers.

Law-makers represent interests more than they represent justice.

### *

Reading Audre Lorde's _Uses of Anger: Women Responding to Racism_, for the second time:

_Hatred is the fury of those who do not share our goals, and its object is death and destruction. Anger is a grief of distortions between peers, and its object is change... Guilt is not a response to anger; it is a response to one's own actions or lack of action... [A]ll too often, guilt is just another name for impotence... it becomes a device to protect ignorance and the continuation of things the way they are, the ultimate protection for changelessness._

### *

> Dear Law-makers,
>
> This is not a thank you letter. 
> 
> I understand that Articles 1.2.1, 1.2.2 and 2.1.1. of the Long-term Care Act (Wlz) and the National Act on Administrative Law (Awb) ensure my right to health insurance.
>
> However, I feel awkward thanking a system that makes me an outlier in the first place. I do not thank you for coming around and acknowledging my humanity. Equality is not a compensation.
>
> I do not thank you for letting me have rights. If I say this, I become a co-conspirator in your descrimination and your prejudice.
>
> Co-existing with you,
> Jue

I can hear a voice.

_But you could have had it worse, you ungrateful foreigner!_

I can hear myself speaking.

_Didn't you also make laws so that for foreigners to have the same job as a national would, the salaries are reduced?_

_Yes, we are providing opportunities. If you don't want them, you can leave!_

_But if I were an EU-national, this law would not apply._

_Well too bad you were not born in the EU._

_You mean that people born in the EU have more rights than others?_

_There ARE priorities in things._

_You mean, priorities in people and priorities defined by nationality, class, race, age, gender, sexuality, religion, ableness?_

### *

Currently reading: _Notes on Nationalism_, _The Thing Around Your Neck_, _Pleasure Activism_



