---
categories: play
---

## ACT ONE
## Scene 1

> Herman and Olga walk together silently until they start an argument.

# HERMAN
You seem pissed.

# OLGA
By what?

# HERMAN
I don't know. I am just sharing my observation.

# OLGA
Your observation or your opinion?

# HERMAN
Now I think you are pissed.

# OLGA
You think. So you agree that was an opinion.

# HERMAN
Sur… Why does this matter? I just…

    Olga interrupts Herman silently.

# HERMAN
Never mind. You are being weird.

# OLGA
I am weird.

# HERMAN
What's wrong?

# OLGA
Nothing.

# HERMAN
What's wrong?

    Not getting an answer, Herman looks up.

We are here.

# OLGA
No, we are not.

# HERMAN
What's the matter with you? Why do you have to disagree with everything I say?

# OLGA
Oh now I lose my freedom of expression?

# HERMAN
No. It's not about your freedom. I am not talking about your freedom.

# OLGA
Good. Because I care a lot about it.

# HERMAN
I don't understand.

# OLGA
What don't you understand?

# HERMAN
Why are you upset?

# OLGA
I have the right to have emotions.

# HERMAN
But why? I am asking for the cause, not questioning your action. Or emotion, whatever.

# OLGA
Can you stop prodding me for one second?

# HERMAN
I am tired.

# OLGA
I am tired.

# HERMAN
What?

# OLGA
Nothing.

# HERMAN
Why don't you just say it?

# OLGA
Stop.

# HERMAN
No. Say it.

> They enter a room with a grand piano.

# HERMAN
You're afraid.

# OLGA
The concert is starting. Can we talk about this, or anything, later?

# HERMAN
You are afraid.

> Olga doesn't respond. A female figure comes on stage. She is affectionate, happy to see Herman. Figure sits on the piano chair.

# HERMAN
    to Olga
I love you.

> Figure gives Herman a look, then plays the piano for an entire four minutes. Herman and Olga sit still. With unease as blinding as a white elephant, they start to dance.

> Remorse spreading across the pounding heart, Herman stops and watches Olga move by herself.

> He was once a believer.

> Olga comes back. They dance together, only this time Herman knows that he has lied - to himself and so many times.

> He has forgotten the truth, which now comes back like a slashing rain. Truth is not something stagnant, unchanging.

> But to Olga, such distinction between truth and change and lie does not exist.

> Figure finishes, walks up to Herman. Away from Olga, they enter a different space.

# FIGURE
Well. Do you want to hear the answer?

# HERMAN
I do. I do except that... It doesn't matter anymore.

# FIGURE
Are you sure?

# HERMAN
Am I sure... Of what?

# FIGURE
You know. What you just said. Of being in love. Or rather, of being in the state of...

# HERMAN
    interrupts
...love. Yes. I am sure - it doens't matter anymore.

# FIGURE
That's unfortunate.

#HERMAN
Well.

#FIGURE
Why did you say it then? Why did you say it to her?

#HERMAN
I thought I would feel better.

#FIGURE
And you called that love?

    fishes in her pocket

Want some chocolate?

# HERMAN
Sure. I...

> Herman makes attempts to explain, but Figure stops him by playing a note on the piano every time he tries to do so. Finally, Herman gives up. Figure and Herman eat chocolate in silence until Figure starts a poem.

# FIGURE

_Little by little, and also in great leaps,_

_life happened to me,_

_and how insignificant this business is._

_These veins carried_

_my blood, which I scarcely ever saw,_

_I breathed the air of so many places_

_without keeping a sample of any._

_In the end, everyone is aware of this:_

_nobody keeps any of what he has..._

    Herman, knowing this line, joins Figure.

# HERMAN & FIGURE

_...and life is only a borrowing of bones._

# FIGURE

_The best thing was learning not to have too much_

_either of sorrow or of joy,_

_to hope for the chance of a last drop,_

_to ask more from honey and from twilight._

# HERMAN

_Perhaps it was my punishment._

_Perhaps I was condemned to be happy._

_Let it be known that nobody_

_crossed my path without sharing my..._

    drops

I'm not happy.

# FIGURE
Of course you're not.

# HERMAN
I was afraid of a broken heart.

# FIGURE
Answer me this. Do you love her?

# HERMAN
...I did.

# FIGURE
You did.

# HERMAN
    points at the chocolate
Can I have another? 

# FIGURE
Last one.

# HERMAN
I wanted to keep what I had. Not to watch them fade. Vaporize. Disintegrate.

# FIGURE
Are you keeping any of it, at all?

> Figure says as she goes back to the piano chair. Herman walks back to Olga.

# Olga
    to Herman
Oh. I...

> Figure starts to play another piece. Herman and Olga dance.

> Burdened by the waves of words, Olga stops and watches Herman move by himself.

> She is reminded of the ocean, from which she has always kept a distance. It is too beautiful and fierce that she cannot imagine an encounter without surrender. She’d like to think that the two entities, the ocean and herself, admire and bypass each other.

> Herman comes back. They dance together, only this time Olga knows that she would never be able to utter a word to the ocean - the response would swallow her, too loud and too deep.

> Music stops abruptly with a violent separation of the two.

# OLGA
I can't.

# HERMAN
You...can't.

    gets up

You can't?

# OLGA
What are you doing?

# HERMAN
YOU CAN'T.

# OLGA
Stop being such a child.

# HERMAN
I am a child? You are a coward.

> Figure looks at them. The ocean washes over them. People murmur.

> "You are disrupting the concert, sir," says a voice from afar.

# OLGA
You ruined it.

# HERMAN
I need to leave.

> Herman walks out. Murmur submerges. Figure resumes playing by starting the last piece from the beginning. 

> Olga dances alone.

> She thought she would get to keep the blueness, at least, like a silent stone rounded by the flipping of a book. But there is nothing blue, or green, or black, anymore. There is no longer the smell of the slightly salted wind. There is no wind.

> She sits again. Herman comes back and sits next to her.

> Figure finishes, pauses.

# OLGA
I don't want to hurt you.

# HERMAN
I want to know.

# OLGA
I was waiting.

# HERMAN
I was waiting.

# OLGA & HERMAN
For you to say -

# OLGA | HERMAN
no  |  yes

# OLGA
I am sorry.

> Music starts. Figure leaves the piano and joins their dance. One by one, they leave the stage. First Olga, then Figure. Herman remains on the stage.

# HERMAN

I am sorry.
