---
date: 2013-01-27
layout: post
categories: blog
title: A Change
permalink: /a-change
---
In my [portfolio of the past](http://oldwork.tumblr.com/), which I made a year and a half ago, I said:

> Something is at the crossroad of architecture, cartography and art,
> which I studied. And I am seeing it more clearly everyday.

I have kept this portfolio as its own entity - an archive - because it portrays my state of mind to a certain point,
namely, to the day before I started working. It encapsulates my ambition and outlook based on what I knew and believed
throughout four years of liberal arts education and even vague, broad, subconscious ideas from childhood. But what I knew
and believed was very little, as I soon realized. I was only starting to learn things.

What this "something" has become is still in lack of articulation, not because I have walked too far, or lost faith in what
I do, but because the world has grown larger on me. I have embraced difference that I never planned to encounter. 
So here I am, saying what I was trying to say, but with new knowledge and capabilities:

> Something is originating from architecture, or at least the understanding and practicing
> of its design process, which is a very small subset of architecture as a discipline, not
> to mention the profession. This kernel of knowledge - this mode of learning,
> researching and discovering - is being applied to every realm with which I engage.
> I am no longer seeing it as a definite answer, a shapely object at a distance towards
> which I am walking. It is not static. And in fact, I no longer see it but can only feel it
> engrained with what I do everyday.

There is a shift from the what to the how. What I do everyday now is website design - more specifically,
websites that makes information more accessible. It sounds all grand and hip and even pretty. Well it has
all of those aspects but at the same time, it is more. If I look inward, it is hours and hours of not 
knowing something yet still wanting to materialize it and materialize it well. To communicate it outward, it is constructing a model
with a new language that manifests as a [surface](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_interface) 
which is the screen. And, to quote someone I could not remember, possibly a tweet I saw one morning,
"the object is useless without the user." Site and audience are the fundamental
premises that shape the design problem in an architecture studio. The design of a website, like that of a building, 
goes through the same constraints and produces something that speaks to and for those who are using it. It should be 
"intuitive" although intuition might not be the best way to describe a user interface. What a website does is to some degree 
pushing the envelope of intuition by introducing new ways of learning and seeing. It also reveals something that leads
to the aha moment - a possible happiness and enlightenment, if you will - I diverge here.

I was offered a piece of advice (or rather, an observation) when I first started making websites. _You need to get into the craftsmanship_.
I have been gnawing on these words. It has meant different things as I learn more. It is not just clean js, clean css, clean everything.
It is not just elegance in code (although I know I am still thousands of lines away from elegance itself). It is not even just the seek
of excellence. 

The will, the practice, the perseverance - they are all one part of craft. Knowing how to do something is simply not enough.
Doing it is not enough. Doing it over and again until the best methods have been tried and proven (or discarded)
is probably just the beginning of crafts(wo)manship.

So, the will is simple and firm. It is a result from the motivation to learn and make good things. The practice is taking its time, as I keep
my head down and merge, commit, push and pull away. Regarding the perseverance, I have a few words to say, that is, crafts(wo)manship in
websites is never about style. Using the metaphor of a building, it is not about the facades, nor the pursuit of form.
Rather, to paraphrase [Eames](http://markwunsch.com/blog/2008/09/27/design-q-a-with-charles-eames.html), we are constrained by what 
is available at the moment of creation - technology, money, time. _The ephemeral design for ephemeral needs_,
but by that it doesn't mean that design is transient. Only the product and the style it alludes to are.