---
layout: play
categories:
- play
- full
image: "untitled-quest.png"
---
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>I am a technologist...</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe <a href="#the-quest-note">*</a></div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>A what?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p><a href="/resume" target="_blank">Technologist.</a></p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>That's a thing?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Yeah it's... I know... Whenever I use the term people ask--</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>"So what does that mean?"</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Exactly. And I say "I teach journalists how to code at a school."</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>I thought simplification bugged you.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Still does. All these "what do you do", "what's your line of work", "where do you work"...</p>
	<p>All these demands for an elevator pitch of who I am!</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>If you, um, <em>despise</em> it so much--</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Despise... Damn. That's actually accurate.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>--Why putting a label on yourself in the first place?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p class="direction">(beat)</p>
	<p>Convenience?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Ok.</p>
	<p>Not subjecting to labels, check. Demanding a convenient way to present yourself, check. Paradox -- check.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>It's my defense mechanism in a world filled with small talks.</p>
</div>
<div class="direction">
	<p>Joe throws his hands up in the air.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright (CONT'D)</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>You are right. It contributes to the very problem I'm battling with.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Don't agree so that you can escape.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>What do you want?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Why the label if you have problems with it?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>It's what's "professional".</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>That's not even an excuse.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>It's paying my bills.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>So?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>So I feel obligated to frame--</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>If you ain't honest with yourself, nobody will do it for you.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p class="direction">(beat)</p>
	<p>Why do you want the truth?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>'cause <em>that</em> is what's interesting! The real deal! Not some fluffy elevated political correctness that drags us to the same argument again and again and again. Or the same shade of grey the same brunch spot the same web-site template with that fancy header image--</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p class="direction">(on "template")</p>
	<p>--That's a good one--</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>It's provocative. It makes you think. It makes me think. It makes waking up in the morning not some dredgery of coffee-making, email-answering, subway-riding, NPR-listening--</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p class="direction">(interrupts)</p>
	<p>I get it. I get it!</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p class="direction">(beat)</p>
	<p>It's not other people's fault if you don't know who you are.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p class="direction">(pause)</p>
	<p>I wanted to be an <a href='http://oldwork.tumblr.com' target='_blank'>architect</a> a few year ago. Studied it. Didn't sleep much but I was so damn happy. The mentors, the books, the idol I had at the time -- they all told me that I should <em>live</em>! And do so with humility...</p>
	<p>SO. I. LIVED. I lived and lived and what do I know... I actually learned something that I never thought I'd touch.</p>
	<p>I learned to code.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Code.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Yes. I have become rational, efficient, pragmatic and... proud -- in a non-egoistic way of course...I'm proud of the possiblities I've discovered.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Understandable. America does that to you.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p><em>Time</em> does that to me. <a href="/portfolio" target="_blank">I made websites, constructed information architecture, geo-located ideas and patterns</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Jargon alarm!</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>...I let the unforeseen opportunities shape my trajectory.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Too abstract.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>I didn't want to preordain my experiences just because I knew how to draw a section plan.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Still.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>I trusted spontaneity and I was humbled by technology.</p>
	<p class="direction">(beat)</p>
	<p>This one?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Let's go with that.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p class="direction">(beat)</p>
	<p>Spontaneity. Yet spontaneity led to a routine. I did more of the same thing. More and more and more until nothing was tangible but the keyboard, nothing was visible but the glowing screen. I kept going because I believed whatever knowledge I gained -- however irrelavant they seemed -- would add up to something. SOMETHING.</p>
	<p class="direction">(realizes)</p>
	<p>And it led to this: I've refused to call myself an artist.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>What's wrong with calling yourself an artist?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>It's the antithesis of pragmatism. You make things for yourself. And that's selfish.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Says the person who detests simplification.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>You live in your head. You are protective of what you created. You don't think about the <em>real</em> world -- the business of living. You romanticize being broke. </p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p class="direction">(beat)</p>
	<p>What are you afraid of?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>What?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>An artist doesn't have to have any traits you mentioned.</p>
	<p>She can be as selfless or narcissistic as she wants to, collaborate with as many or as few people as she wants to, have as much or as little social impact as she wants to.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>That's a lot of "wants to".</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Exactly! You gotta want it. You <em>must</em> want it.</p>
	<p class="direction">(beat)</p>
	<p>Do you?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>I...</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>What are you <em>afraid</em> of?</p>
</div>
<div class="direction">
	No answer. Playwright walks over to the bookshelf and examines the collection.
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p class="direction">(as she looks for something on the bookshelf)</p>
	<p>It's the desire to dedicate myself while I am and have been doing something totally, seemingly irrelevant. This pursuit of something pure, the craft of that something pure... It's far and daunting and I don't know what is the right thing to do. I don't know how to be in two realities at the same time.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>If you say so.</p>
	<p class="direction">(beat)</p>
	<p>Do you believe it?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>"Embrace uncertainty." "Do not fear failure."...</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Huh?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>These are things I say to others when I teach them how to program.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Bingo! Here you are setting up an arbituary binary for <em>yourself</em> -- artist or not artist. You pine for the former. You tiptoe around it. And you begrudge others the work they've created.</p>
	<p class="direction">(beat, maybe in British accent)</p>
	<p>Such nonsense of ill-defined duality must come to an end.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>The Newtonian explaination of the world no longer serves...</p>
	<p class="direction">(finds the sketchbook she was looking for, pulls it out from the bookshelf and flips to a page)</p>
	<p>Found it! This was at an architecture critique. One of my studio mates was presenting, but I couldn't process anything he was talking about. I was deep, deep in thought and all of a sudden -- like my brain just turned into a screen and the camera that was very close up to the words and the images and the sketches -- the camera started to pull away. Away and away until all those letters and drawings became a square. One. Single. Square. Dense with information, yet unintelligible. The camera moved on to a different block of words and images, close up at first, and the same thing happened --</p>
	<p class="direction">(points to a place on the page)</p>
	<p>I ended up with all these neatly organized squares. It was synthesis. (And perhaps sleep deprevation...) I remember thinking, is this what abstraction is? Is this how my brain organizes chaos? Is this, actually, how the human mind works???</p>
	<p class="direction">(more calmly)</p>
	<p>I thought by living -- by learning things that I would not have dreamed of being capable of -- I would endure the chaos and reach that level of clarity again, with even more materials.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Have you?</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>The first time I organized a bunch of code into objects -- this programming paradigm -- I had a flashback of <em>just that</em>: the camera zooming out. The synthesis. Later I learned more vocabularies in programming: functions, patterns, modules... I have finally found the precise words to describe that moment of epiphany. My metaphors expanded: data structure, building structure; binding data to a node, associating meaning with a name. I was able to understand both worlds. And I was able to decode and encrypt at the same time. It felt as though I was learning a new language and doing standup comedy <em>in</em> that language and people actually laughed. And they laughed really hard, and they smiled, and they nodded and--</p>
	<p class="direction">(beat)</p>
	<p>I felt understood. I felt more understood than when I spoke in my native tongue.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>I'll ride with that metaphor. So are you -- but you are losing your mother tongue. You are losing the writing, the sketching, the painting, those means you used to create--</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>It's not just metaphorical. I am forgetting Chinese, too. You should listen to my conversations with my parents--</p>
</div>
<div class="direction">
	<p>Joe pulls out a piece of paper in his pocket and reads.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>"Please keep writing. As you continue, keep that purity of heart and that purity of language -- wherever your poetry make take you."</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p class="direction">(beat)</p>
	<p>Garrett, my poetry teacher.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>And this.</p>
	<p class="direction">(reads)</p>
	<p>"I know your eye/mind will continue to sharpen and will perceive much. May you, like Sargent, always see light in the shadows."</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Kathleen. Watercolor.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>And this.</p>
	<p class="direction">(looks up and straight into the playwright's eyes)</p>
	<p>"Be. Ambitious."</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Ha. John. Nature writing, or as he called it, "creative non-fiction with an alertness to the environment".</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>You won't forget these. You won't forget Chinese. You're just looking away. You're deliberately neglecting them.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>I'm -- I just don't want to deprive myself from learning --</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>You are not!</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>-- I have earned these metaphors for my life because I have experienced the unfamliar.</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>Metaphors! You keep calling them metaphors! What are metaphors good for when they are just alluding to something that's <em>not the thing</em> itself?</p>
	<p>What is the thing of your life?</p>
</div>
<div class="direction">
	Playwright cannot answer.
</div>
<div class="character">Joe</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>You are afraid to admit it. You are afraid that when you get to the bottom of it you are acutally not going to be that good. That you will <em>fail</em>. So you keep it at a safe distance. Something framed. Something nostalgic. Something warm and fuzzy to dig up on a cold winter night...</p>
	<p class="direction">(throws PLAYWRIGHT a pen)</p>
	<p>Tell the truth.</p>
</div>
<div class="direction">
	<p>Playwright picks up the pen, hesitates. She starts to write, for a long time. When she is done, she tears off the pages. She puts the pages down at her feet. She finds a bottle of ink, pours the ink over her hands, onto the pages.</p>
	<p>Her hands covered in the dark blueness, She gathers the pages. She folds them carefully. Once, twice... until she has only a small square in her hand. One. Single. Square. She puts it in her palm and clenches her hand. Something illuminating happens. With or without tears, she says</p>
</div>
<div class="character">Playwright</div>
<div class="dialogue">
	<p>I am an artist.</p>
</div>
<footer><a name="the-quest-note">*</a> One of the names of God.</footer>